Meera runs up the hill, past the river and the trees. All the way to the top, chasing the clouds. She climbs up, up, up, without a stop.“Maa, Baba! Hurry, please. Before the sun goes to sleep,” Meera says. Maa says, “Mmmm! I love the smell of fresh air.” Meera says, “I love the smell of flowers. And the crunching sound of fallen leaves under my feet.”Baba says, “I can also smell something I love. A cup of milky cha!” Baba sets off to chase the aroma of tea.“Can we have two cups of tea, please?” asks Baba. “And a small cup for Meera, please,” says Maa.“Right away!” says the cha wallah dada. Sssskkkk…He lights the stove with a match and places a pan of water on the fire.The water gets hotter and hotter. The tiny bubbles get bigger and bigger. The water starts boiling.Dada pours some milk into the pan with the boiling water. “Maa, see how the milk shares its colour with the water,” says Meera.“Now, see what happens when the tea leaves are added,” says Maa. Meera patiently waits for two minutes and then says in surprise, “Ooh, it is changing colour again.” “Is the tea ready now, Dada?” Meera asks.“Almost ready,” he says. Swoosh, swoosh, swoosh! He pours three cups of tea through a strainer, leaving behind little piles of sticky leaves.Finally, he adds sugar. At home, this is Meera’s job when Maa and Baba make tea. She loves the sound of the spoon tinkling against the cups. Meera stares into the cups asthe sugar disappears. “Now it is ready!” says Meera.Watch Dada make cha Can you arrange these processes in the correct order to make a cup of hot tea? Dissolution: Dada adds sugar to the tea, it mixes and disappears into the tea, making it sweet. This is when a solid breaks down, and becomes part of the liquid.Filtration: Dada pours the tea through the strainer into the cup, keeping the leaves behind. This is when bits of solid inside a liquid are removed when the liquid passes through a filter.Diffusion: The smell of tea moves from Dada’s shop to Baba’s nose through the air around them. This is when one substance mixes into another evenly. These substances move from a place that has more of them to a place that has less of them.Convection: While making tea, the hot fluid at the bottom of the pan rises to the top because it is lighter. The cooler fluid on top, sinks to the bottom and takes its place. This cycle continues and eventually heats the liquid uniformly. This is how heat flows within fluids.Conduction: Dada puts the pan on the stove, lights it up, and the pan heats up. This is when heat moves within a solid or from a solid to a liquid.