There was once a little girl who dreamt a lot. She dreamt of seas and forests, of fields and valleys, of mountains and rivers; she sometimes dreamt she flew high into the sky and at other times she saw herself diving into the ocean; but best of all, she dreamt of the school bell ringing to announce the end of the school day and of all the children running out with their bags in glee. Sometimes upon waking up, she would discover she was not at home under the blankets but had dozed off in class and the bell had really rung!Vijaya - that was the little girl's name - loved the lunch break and the end of school hours for then she could play with Ammu, her best friend, and talk ten to the dozen while cycling on their way back home. Viji, as she was called by her friends, loved to talk about her dreams to Ammu who would listen with wonder and wish she could have such amazing dreams too. Ammu was a patient listener and a warm-hearted girl. She cried easily if the others bothered her but Viji was her protectress. The mean kids did not dare make Ammu cry when Viji was around because she would make her eyes very large and scary and glare at them. She would give those girls a good scolding in a stern, high voice that they feared would catch the attention of the teachers if it were allowed to continue. Viji loved looking after Ammu and together the two of them discussed the beautiful lands that they sometimes dreamt of and wondered where those places could be. Perhaps it was in America? Ammu had ventured. Viji didn't like the sound of America and said she would find out the name of the place from somebody when she dreamt next.One day, Viji didn't come to school and Ammu had to spend a whole day without anyone to talk to. She waited eagerly for her best friend to show up on the next day but Viji was absent again. This went on for the whole week. She found out that Viji's maternal grandmother was very sick in bed and that Viji and her parents had had to rush to her aid to her mother's village in Andhra Pradesh. When the weekend came, there was still no news of Viji. On Sunday night, Ammu prayed hard before going to bed that Vijaya should return to town and attend school the next day. She put in an additional prayer asking for her grandmother to be healed soon, recalling how much Viji loved her.That night, Ammu had a vivid dream. She saw that she was travelling though a dark forest with Viji. They were small and the trees were big and tall. As they walked, leaves fallen on the ground crumpled under their feet. At long last they came upon a bright green field at the end of the woods. The sun shone merrily on a cottage in the distance. She could spot a cow and two country fowls near it. Someone waved at them from within the fence. The two of them ran to greet her. It was an old woman, quite tall and healthy, with long graying hair tied in a plait behind her, a big beaming smile and deep, peaceful, beautiful eyes. She bowed down and scooped the two of them up, one on each arm and Viji screamed, "Ammamma! " It was her grandmother, whole and well. Of course she was pleased to see her!The next moment Ammu found herself being shaken firmly by her mother, trying to wake her up. "What are you smiling at, my dear? " she asked. "If you sleep a moment longer you will be late for school today! Come on, we have to get you ready. " Ammu was still half asleep. Her mother continued. "Oh, and Vijaya's mother called up saying you are to take your cycle by their house today. Vijaya is going to school. They returned late last night with her grandmother. " Ammu jumped up from her bed at this. All her drowsiness was gone. She knew it! Hadn't she just dreamt of it all? Wait till she could tell Viji all about it! This was going to be the best Monday of her life.