Vedika and Karan loved to huddle and read together on their grandfather’s rocking chair. “Look at the lion,” pointed Vedika. “It’s a very small picture. Fetch me Grandpa’s big looking glass,” said Karan.Karan moved the magnifying glass forward and back till he saw the lion look really huge. “Vedika! This lion is getting bigger and bigger!” “The lion is moving, Karan!” screamed Vedika.Just then, Karan and Vedika put down the looking glass and found themselves standing in front of a huge, big lion.The lion opened its wide mouth and let out a, “Miiaaooww!” “What’s wrong Mr. Lion? Why do you sound like a cat?” asked Vedika.“My cousin, the cat and I met at the lake yesterday and when we drank water from the lake, I got her miaow and she got my roar,” said the lion.“This is terrible, Mr. Lion. Where can we find your cousin, the cat?” asked Karan. “Sitting on some tree and scaring the birds I think,” replied the lion. “Vedika, let’s help the lion get his roar back,” said Karan.“Come with us Mr. Lion,” said Vedika. Just then they heard the roar they were looking for. They searched and searched till they found the cat sitting high up on a tree.“Miss Cat, you have a loud roar,” said Vedika. “Yes, I do. And, the lion has my tiny miaow,” replied the cat. “Now I can scare all the birds and animals.”“Mr. Lion needs his roar back. Please give it back to him,” begged Karan. Just as he said that Karan let out an, “Aaaachooooo!” Then, one more followed and another and then many more.“Stop that Karan, you are making me want to, to, too… Aaaaachoooo!” sneezed Vedika. Then, one more followed and another and then many more.Before anyone could say anything, the cat and the lion sniffed, opened their mouths wide and let out an Aaaaachoooo! One sounded like a iaowchooooo and the other a roarchooooo. Then, one more followed, and another and then many more.Everyone looked at each other and sniffed. The lion tried to miaow but out came a Roaaarrrrr! The cat tried to roar but out came a Miiaaow! Vedika clapped her hands and giggled. “Mr. Lion, you have your roar back.” “I do, I do, and thank you,” he replied.The cat didn’t look very happy. “Miss Cat, you sound very sweet with your miaow,” said Karan. “Do I? Well, then thank you,” said Miss Cat.Vedika and Karan held their looking glass to get a closer look at the cat and as they moved it forward and back, the cat became smaller and smaller.Just then Karan and Vedika found themselves rocking back and forth on their grandfather’s rocking chair.