Mukhil has been in bed all day. She has a fever. She’s really tired but her head is buzzing with questions. Will Amma let her miss tomorrow’s maths test? Will she be too tired for playtime with friends? And when did her room get so cold?Amma comes in with a bowl of rice kanji. COUGH! COUGH! COUGH! Amma looks worried and takes her temperature. “102 degrees! Oh no!” Mukhil’s body is so warm, but she feels so cold! “Maybe we should take a blood test,” says Amma.Mukhil sits up in alarm. A blood test? “But I have not studied for any tests!” “It’s not that kind of test,” Amma laughs. “The doctor will take a little of your blood to look at it under the microscope.”“But what if all my blood drips out and I end up empty?” Mukhil asks. She is terrified. “Don’t worry,” says Amma. “An adult has at least five litres of blood in their body. You’re a child and even you will have at least three litres! That’s almost 600 teaspoons of blood. The doctor will just need a few drops.”As Mukhil dozes off that afternoon, she sees a ghost in a long white coat getting ready to suck her blood. What long teeth it has! Mukhil wakes up cold and shivering. Phew! It's only a dream!In the evening, Amma and Mukhil go to a clinic. Mukhil sees a nurse coming towards her with a long rubber cord. “Is he going to tie me up?” she yells.The doctor laughs, “No, no. This is a tourniquet. Here, sit down and curl the fingers of your left hand into a fist.” The nurse ties the tourniquet around Mukhil’s left arm. “The cord is just to help him draw the blood easily,” she says.Then, the nurse brings out a syringe saying, “This will only take a few seconds.” Mukhil jumps out of the chair when she sees the needle. “Oh Mukhil! You will need to be brave,” says Amma. So Mukhil climbs back in and shuts her eyes.The needle goes in. Ouch! Mukhil opens one eye to see the syringe filling up with blood. It is dark red, almost maroon. The nurse slowly pulls out the needle and presses a small piece of cotton to soak up a drop of blood. “Bend your arm at the elbow and hold it like that for a few minutes,” he says.“Is that all?” Mukhil asks the doctor, thinking that it wasn’t so bad. The blood is now in a small plastic tube. “That’s it! You can collect the results tomorrow,” replies the doctor, “The lab will check your blood to see if everything is alright.”On the way home, Amma buys some candied cherries for Mukhil. They are as maroon as her blood. Mukhil eats them all up.The next day, Amma brings home the blood test results. “Have I passed?” Mukhil asks in a worried tone. “Yes,” says Amma, “The doctor says it’s just a flu. You’ll be fine, soon!”Mukhil smiles. She is feeling better already. And she can't WAIT to tell her friends at school about how she passed her first blood test!Colourful Blood Human beings and many other animals have RED blood. But some animals have blood in other colours. Did you know that some beetles and the sea cucumber have YELLOW blood? Some worms that live in the sea have GREEN blood and some worms have PURPLE blood. Can you guess the colour of the blood of an octopus? (The answer is on page 17. )What's Your Blood Group? Did you know that there are many different groups of blood based on the proteins in your blood? The blood groups are O negative, O positive, A negative, A positive, B negative, B positive, AB negative and AB positive. What is your blood group? Find out if your friend has a different blood group.Answer: Blue