Captain Raju steered the fighter jet to a sharp left, just missing the Eiffel Tower. "Phew! Paris is certainly a tricky place to fly in, " he thought, heart beating fast. Suddenly, he heard a noise from the cockpit – *BEEP BEEP BEEP* What was it? Was he on enemy ground? Did the engine have a problem?3*BEEP BEEP BEEP* Raju woke up with a start at the sound of the alarm. "It was all just a dream, " he sighed. But, wait. There’s no time for disappointment! Today was a big day."I am going to take my first aeroplane ride! Amma, I’m awake! " His mother was zipping up the suitcase. "Good morning, Raju! " she said. "I’m so excited to see your sister. It’s been so many months since we saw Arya! Get ready quickly. "6Raju was inside an airport for the first time in his life. He helped his mother lift the suitcase on to a moving belt. The belt carried the bags into a big machine. A strict lady in a uniform was looking at a small screen behind the machine. Raju was shocked when he looked at the screen. It showed not just his bag but everything inside it— his new sports shoes, his binoculars, everything! "X-ray vision! Just like Captain Raju has. . . " gasped Raju. Raju opened his mouth to ask the lady something, but his mother stopped him. "Hush, Raju. She is on the security team. She has to make sure passengers are not carrying dangerous items like explosives or weapons. Best not to disturb her. "At last, Raju found himself in a large hall. The walls were made of glass and he could see dozens of aeroplanes outside. One was about to take off. "Pilots have such important jobs, don’t they, Amma? " "Of course. Just like bus drivers or ship captains, they are responsible for the safe travel of so many passengers. ""Chechi is so lucky. She’s been on so many planes! I can’t wait till I’m old enough. " Amma laughed. "Oh yes. Arya certainly has. But you are only nine years old. There’s plenty of time for you, Raju. " Raju noticed people lining up at Gate 8. "That’s our gate, Amma. It’s time to board the plane! "Ten minutes later, they were in their seats, all buckled up. Raju looked out of the window as the plane finally began to move. It started slowly, but in a few seconds it was going so fast that Raju felt his seat vibrate. Suddenly, the shaking stopped. The giant plane was in the air! "Amma, we’re flying! " "We are! Listen, Raju. They’re making an announcement. Shhh! " Someone’s voice came from the speakers. A familiar voice. . ."Ladies and gentlemen, this is your Captain, Arya. Welcome aboard! " "Chechi! " "That’s my daughter! " Click here to read Arya's version of the story.