2A jackal and a rabbit were the best of friends. One day the jackal’s wife was not feeling well. The jackal called the rabbit and said, “My wife has fever. She does not feel like eating anything. Now she says she could eat a crab.”4The rabbit said, “Let us go and get a crab for her.” Both the friends set off to find a crab. The rabbit went in one direction and the jackal in another.6The rabbit soon spotted a hole in the mud. He peeped in and saw a fat crab sitting inside. ‘This will be perfect, ’ thought the rabbit.8He carefully put his hand in the hole which was quite deep. When his hand could not reach the crab, the rabbit put his tail into the hole.10The crab bit his tail hard and held it tight. The poor rabbit cried loudly. The jackal heard him and came running to him. The rabbit gasped, “Don’t just look at me. My tail is caught inside, pull me out.”12The jackal caught him by the ears and pulled with all his might. When he saw the tail move, the crab bit the rabbit’s tail again. The rabbit yelled in pain and jumped.14His tail got cut and was left behind in the hole. His ears had become very, very long after the jackal had pulled them.Since that day the rabbit’s tail is short and his ears long.17The Partners IgnusERG is a guild of resource persons working to support teachers and enhancing the quality of education, particularly in government schools. They focus their efforts on bringing equity in education and addressing the needs of marginalized children. Bernard van Leer Foundation is an international grant-making foundation based in The Hague. Its mission is to improve opportunities for young children growing up in socially and economically difficult circumstances. It has a particular interest in supporting mother-tongue based education. This story was written by the Kui Writers’ Group consisting of Buna Kanhar, Filiman Pradhan and Pramod Digal. With a background in ECCE, they all interact with children regularly. It has been illustrated by Sanatan Juanga, using the Saura mural style as a base. The Kui language is spoken by more than 1 lakh people in Khondhamal, Gajapati and Rayagada districts of Odisha. It is related to the Gondi language. The spellings of the language in Odia script are not definitive as many new sounds are being rendered in print for the first time.20