Mumbai has many people, trains and taxis. It also has many happy dogs who live on its streets. Let's take a walk down its many bylanes and meet the city’s street dogs.Traffic loves to help the traffic police. When someone breaks a rule, Traffic chases the vehicle and stands next to it. No one can get away under his watch.Chickoo lives by a movie theatre. He eats and plays with the security guards. On cold nights, Chickoo snuggles into a poncho that his guard- friends made for him.Periappa’s favourite food is idli and dosa. Every day, he visits three different restaurants for breakfast, lunch, and dinner! Periappa is always eating or dreaming about food.Champi lives near a big ground where children play cricket and football. Mauryaji, a sugarcane juice seller, found her. At that time, he was taking a head massage, which is called champi. That is how she got her name!As a puppy, Hole was rescued from a rat hole by a manager of a church. So they decided to call him Hole. Hole sits on the theatre steps, wagging his tail and greeting moviegoers.Captain lives in a park where Sachin Tendulkar played cricket. He loves to run. Every year, he trots alongside the people who run in the Mumbai marathon. Captain even finishes the race. No one gives him a medal, but he is happy with a biscuit!Bogie is fascinated by trains. She was found living in a first- class ladies compartment of a train. Bogie had boarded the train, looking for adventure. But she did not have a ticket.Kalu is usually exploring different parts of his city. He doesn’t even need a map. Some days, he walks by the sea, and on other days he heads to the railway station. One day, he jumped onto a train, when following a friend.Kali loves to play with children. She enjoys it when they cuddle her. She even lets them sit on her back! Kali is looked after by a family that lives on the streets.The Dogs of Mumbai It is hard to imagine Mumbai’s roads without street dogs. These stray dogs, as well as the ones you met in this book, are looked after and fed by thousands of people across the city. They could be the neighbourhood shoeshine man, the policeman, the street vendor, the street dweller or even people living in high-rise buildings. The dogs have names like Kalu, Tommy, Julie or are even named after film stars such as Aishwarya, Salman and Shahrukh. The Welfare of Stray Dogs (WSD) has been looking after the medical care and vaccination of these stray animals for over twenty years.The pictures in this book have been created using a combination of illustrations and photographs. The illustrations have been made by Sumedha Sah. The photographs have been taken by Hashim Badani.