From elephant to ant, we all need some. When I’m done, my tum says, “Yum! Yum! Yummmm!” Guess what this is? Yes! It is food! And food makes me go chew, chomp, yum!WHAT IS FOOD? Can an elephant walk through the forest without food? Can an ant leave its nest without a bite of food? Can you even breathe if you don’t eat food? We all need energy to read, play, eat, study and to live. Where does that energy come from?Plants get energy from the sun. Animals get energy from food like plants or other animals. Human beings eat different types of food. Some natural things that other creatures eat are not food for humans."Sigh! I am my own kitchen! No one makes food for me! ""Yikes! Did I swallow a worm? " "That deer is so thin, I’m sure it is not eating much! "THE TRUTH ABOUT TOOTH When you chew, the teeth break food into smaller bits that are easy to swallow. It also becomes easy for your stomach to draw out all the good things in food and turn them into energy. This is called digestion. The more you chew, the more saliva flows into your mouth. Saliva helps to digest food. Saliva cleans teeth and keeps them healthy. But you need to help your body stay healthy. When you chew things that are not food, like chewing gum or a pencil, your mouth sends a signal to your stomach that it is sending food down. The stomach gets ready to digest food.When it doesn't come, your stomach gets angry and upset! Ouch!Can we eat well if we have no teeth? When you’re taking a selfie, you flash your brightest smile, with your teeth showing. How many teeth do you have? Look closely at the teeth of an adult. There are thirty-two teeth, of four different kinds. 1. Incisors - four flat in the centre - to bite food with. 2. Canine - to tear food. 3. Two pre-molars and three fat molars - to chew and grind food with.CHEW RIGHT Bite or break your food into smaller bits. This makes chewing easier. Chew carefully, slowly and pay attention to how you break the food down. Take the next bite only after you have swallowed the previous bite. Try not to talk while you are eating. You may choke.• Frogs, which have no teeth, swallow their food whole! • An African elephant has four molar teeth to chew with. • Chhurpi, a hard Himalayan cheese, can take hours to soften before you can chew it! • Cats hardly chew their food. But you are not a cat! So, do chew your food well.DID YOU KNOW? • Chewing food is good exercise for your jaws, tongue and gums. • Chewing gum on one side of the mouth can leave the other side weaker and even cause you pain. • Chewing hard food like sugarcane is good for the ears too and helps to keep the passage clean!TYPES OF FOOD Sportspersons like me because I have iron, potassium and vitamins. Calcium and iron make me super strong! Vitamins, minerals, proteins and carbohydrates we have it all!Protein, vitamins, fats we have it all! Manganese, magnesium and good fat make us a crunchy delight. Protein+Carbohydrates is a winning sum!MINERALS are important elements found naturally, important for the health of every cell in your body. VITAMINS are chemicals that cannot be made inside your body but are important for the health of your eyes, skin and hair. Some animals like bats, dogs and guinea pigs can make some vitamins they need.FATS are needed to keep us healthy and full of energy. Fat helps our bodies to absorb some vitamins. The fat in foods like burgers and chips is bad for our health. Animal products, cheese, nuts and oils contain good fat. Everyone needs some fat to stay healthy and to have energy.PROTEINS are to your body as bricks are to your house: they are the building blocks that are found in everything from hair to toenail. A mixed dal made of soybean, masur, moong and cow peas would be packed with protein! Proteins are found in milk, curd, cheese, animal products, beans, seeds, nuts, wheat, oats, brown rice and barley. Phew! CARBOHYDRATES are needed for energy. Starchy and sugary foods such as rice, sugar, potatoes give us carbohydrates. Too much of carbohydrates could be unhealthy. So, do eat less of cakes, jams, pizza!GREEN: Cabbage, spinach: fibre to clean your insides, calcium for bones. ORANGE: Carrots, pumpkin: good for eyes and skin. RED: Watermelon, tomatoes: good for bones and to fight illness like cancer. PURPLE: Brinjal keeps you heart- healthy, looking young, free from diseases.IDEA! Feel like eating something yummy and healthy? Try fruit salad made from guava, papaya, banana, water melon and other seasonal fruit that grow in your region. Add a dash of lemon and a pinch of rock salt for more health and taste.STRIKE A BALANCE Our body needs different kinds of nutrients. But no food contains all of them. That is why, even though you may want to eat paneer at every meal, you must eat different kinds of food like grains, vegetables, pulses, oil and butter. You must also take raw foods such as fruit and salads. If you put a food rainbow on your plate, the colour tells you what is in it for you.GOOD FOOD, NOT-SO-GOOD FOOD Some foods are good for you, and some are not so good for you. It is important to eat more of the good foods, and less of the others that make your body sad. A growing child needs more protein than her grandmother does.When you eat right, your body can sing, “Chew, chomp, yum! There’s goodness in my tum!”Play a game with friends While one person counts to ten, another names only the 'good' foods. See who lists the maximum number of 'good' foods shown on this page in the shortest time.GOODNESS GRACIOUS! Make every meal healthier the fun way. Would you like to add foods from your area? Remember to ask your elders for suggestions! You will be surprised by the number of yummy local dishes they know.BREAKFAST Idly Sattu litti Daliya Poha LUNCH Brown rice Rajma Bajra khichdi Kuttu or buckwheat rotiSNACKS/DRINKS Dhokla Buttermilk Roast dal/pop corn Puffed rice (moori)/ Salad DINNER Multi-grain roti Sprouts salad Green peas roti Methi parathaIf you were feeling hungry and decided to go to the market with ₹50, what would you buy? 1. Methi paratha, buttermilk and guava 2. Idly, peanuts, banana 3. Ragi mudde, greens and sprouts sambar, papad 4. Aalu paratha, kachumbar, lassi 5. Pitha, doi, gur 6. Momos filled with local seasonal vegetables or meatCan you think of other tasty combinations of food from your area? Wouldn’t it be a good idea to organize a food festival in your school with the tastiest, healthiest foods? Chew, chomp, yum! And remember to rub your tum!