'Ah. . . this looks perfect! ' Kakai exclaimed as she flew over the Teak tree. She had spotted the perfect place to make a nest. Our babies will be safe here! ' she said to Kaka with a smile.Using her beak and claws, Kakai collected twigs and dry leaves and gathered them at the spot. With her beak, she sewed them all together to make a home for her chicks. It was tiring work but she would not rest until her job was done. When the nest was ready, Kakai laid her eggs inside it and sat over the eggs to keep them warm. 'Soon, they will hatch and my babies will be out! ' Kakai thought.One day, Kakai was very thirsty and decided to fly out to the little pond nearby to drink some water. 'I must get back quickly' she thought to herself as she flew out. 'It is not safe to leave the nest for long. 'A Koel sitting on a tree nearby had been closely watching Kakai's nest for a long time. When Kakai flew out to drink water, the Koel sensed that it was the right time. Swiftly she flew down to Kakai's nest and laid her egg inside it. Before Kakai could return, the Koel was gone.After having a few sips of water, Kakai quickly returned to her nest. Examining the nest, she was happy to see that the eggs were safe inside. Anxious about the safety of her chicks, she had not realised that, there was one more egg inside the nest.After a few days, the first egg cracked open and a little baby emerged. 'My beautiful babies! ' Kakai smiled as she watched the other eggs crack open one by one. Slowly each of the eggs hatched open and the little babies made their way out. Kakai watched over them all, cleaning them with her beak and making them feel loved.'This little one looks slightly different from the rest, don't you think? Kaka asked Kakai one day, looking down at the little koel baby. 'Well, perhaps it is, ' Kakai replied looking down at the little one. 'But how does it matter? ' she asked. 'After all, it is Love that makes a family! 'Helpless and unable to fly, the chicks depended on their parents for food. Sometimes, Kaka and Kakai found insects and worms for the babies. At other times rice or dosas that people left out on their window sill to feed birds. Putting their beaks into their babies' mouths, the parents fed each of them one by one.Soon, the little chicks had grown and could look after themselves. Ready to fly out into the world, they bade their parents goodbye. 'Take care little ones! ' Kakai said to her babies. 'We are no longer little! ' one of her children laughed.Kakai realised the children were eager to fly out. 'Well, to us, you shall always remain our babies! ' Kakai said to the children as they bid goodbye and flew away.Kaka and Kakai watched, as their children flew out of the nest one by one, to begin their new lives. Feeling a gentle tug at his heart, Kaka said turning to Kakai, 'My dear, I now understand what you once told me. . . It is Love that makes a Family! '