'Why don't I look like you Amma? ' Kavita asked her mother one day. 'You are lovely as you are Kavita! ' her mother replied. 'Why must you look like me? 'Because, ' said Kavita, 'Riya looks like her mother. And Payal looks like hers. ''Hmm. . why don't we go to the park? ' suggested Amma. 'I'll show you something there. ' 'No! insisted Kavita. 'Answer my question first. Why don't I look like you? ' 'The best answers are those you find for yourself! ' replied Amma. 'So, come with me. 'Kavita loved to play at the park and agreed to go. Some of Kavita's friends were at the park. But Amma walked past them all. Walking past the swings and the slides, Amma took Kavita to the far end of the park.There, Amma peered into the rows of neatly planted bushes and looked underneath the leaves. Kavita was puzzled. 'What are you doing Amma? ' she asked. 'Found it! ' Amma exclaimed. 'Found what? ' Kavita asked, still confused.'Look at this! ' Amma said pointing to a caterpillar munching away on a leaf. Kavita bent down to take a closer look. 'Those stripes look lovely! ' she exclaimed. 'Just like those of the tiger! she added. 'Indeed! ' said Amma. 'But this caterpillar is alone. Why don't we help her find her mother, ' she suggested.'Hmmm. . . Ok, ' responded Kavita, not sure why Amma was giving her this task. Kavita searched high and low. She crawled on the grass and she climbed on the trees. She searched inside shrubs and she looked underneath leaves.She found an army of ants marching in a line on the ground. They were busy just like the caterpillar. 'Do you think this ant could be the caterpillar's mother? ' Amma asked. 'No! said Kavita, shaking her head. 'The caterpillar is yellow and the ant is not! So, the ant cannot be the caterpillar's mother''What about that jewel beetle there? ' asked Amma pointing to the shining insect on a dry leaf. 'Do you think that might be the caterpillar's mother? ' 'No! ' said Kavita, shaking her head. 'The caterpillar has stripes and the beetle has spots! So the beetle cannot be the caterpillar's mother! ''Oh! And what about these bees? ' asked Amma as they watched the insects do the bee dance. 'Do you think one of them could be the caterpillar's mother? ' No! ' repeated Kavita, shaking her head. 'The caterpillar cannot fly, but the bee can! So, the bee cannot be the caterpillar's mother! ''How about that dragonfly there? ' asked Amma. Kavita was amazed to see the dragonfly's wings that were as clear as water. 'No! ' she said, shaking her head again. 'The caterpillar does not have wings and the dragonfly does! So the dragonfly cannot be the caterpillar's mother. ''Look there! ' exclaimed Amma pointing to the praying mantis. Kavita examined the insect that looked like it had joined its hands to pray. 'What about this one? ' Amma asked. 'No! ' said Kavita, shaking her head. 'The caterpillar has many short legs and the praying mantis has six long ones. So, the praying mantis cannot be the caterpillar's mother. 'Kavita was tired of searching. 'We are never going to find the caterpillar's mother! ' she sighed. 'Let's go back where we began, ' said Amma. 'And this time, keep your eyes open! ' 'Amma, my eyes are open! ' insisted Kavita. 'Well then, ' said Amma, 'This time, keep your mind open too! 'Kavita and Amma went back to the rows of shrubs where they had begun the search. And this time, Kavita noticed dozens of butterflies hovering over the plants. There were white butterflies with orange tips and orange ones with black stripes. Tiny yellow ones and large red ones.Kavita gazed at the butterflies as they danced around the shrubs. She tried to chase them but somehow they got away, returning to the same shrub over and over again. Kavita was puzzled and looked up at Amma who was smiling as if she were try to hint at something.Kavita looked at the butterfly closely. The caterpillar had stripes. The butterfly did not. The caterpillar was yellow. The butterfly was not. The caterpillar had no wings. The butterfly had four. The caterpillar couldn't fly. The butterfly had a bouncy flight. The caterpillar had many tiny legs. The butterfly had six long ones. 'No! ' said Kavita, shaking her head again. 'It can't be! ' 'Yes! ' exclaimed Amma, nodding her head.'Really? ' asked Kavita in disbelief. 'Yes! ' said Amma with a smile. 'You have finally found the caterpillar's mother! ' 'But. . . but. . . ' Kavita hesitated. 'But the caterpillar looks nothing like her mother! ' she said. 'That's right! ' responded Amma. 'The caterpillar looks nothing like her mother. ' 'They are both beautiful just the way they are! ''I am like the little hungry caterpillar! ' giggled Kavita after a pause. 'Soon you'll turn into a big bouncy butterfly! ' laughed Amma. Kavita smiled. No, she didn't need to look like her mother. Because not everyone does.