Kavita was upset. She had just found out that her best friend Riya, had been born in a hospital, from her mama's tummy. Just like all her other friends. Kavita wondered why she was not born from her mama's tummy like them. Kavita had come from a Children's HomeNani knew why her grand- daughter was sad. To cheer her up, she had made Kavita's favourite ladoos. 'Kavita! Come and have some besan ladoos! ' she called. 'No! ' Kavita pushed the plate away. She was not in the mood.'Alright then, ' said Nani 'Let me tell you a story. ' 'No Nani! ' Kavita refused again. But Nani insisted and drew Kavita near. A story could do magic. And Nani had just the right story to make Kavita smile again.'Many years ago, ' began Nani, 'there lived a wise and kind king called Janak, who ruled the Kingdom of Videha. The people of Videha were happy to have a good and just king like him.Now kings did not usually join farmers in tilling the land but Janak was no ordinary king. He went into the fields one day and began to plough. Driving his plough into the soft rich soil, Janak was alarmed when he suddenly heard a baby.In a furrow on the ground, Janak found a beautiful little baby girl. Janak lifted her up in his arms and the baby gurgled. She had lovely large eyes and instantly smiled at him. Janak's heart was filled with joy. She was the most beautiful baby he had seen. "I take this little girl as my daughter! " he announced holding her up."What? " cried an old man in the crowd that had gathered around the King. "How can this be? " "What is the matter? " Janak asked, turning around. The old man remained silent. "Do not hesitate. Speak! " ordered the King. "I was only saying that the child is not born to King Janak and Queen Sunaina. How then can she be their daughter? " the old man said softly. "How dare you speak to the King like that? " the King's guard interrupted. "No! Don't stop him, " said Janak. "I must find an answer to the man's question. "Finding himself a place to sit under the shade of a Peepal Tree, Janak thought about what the old man had said. He wondered how this little girl that he had found in the furrow on the ground, could be his daughter when she had not been born to Queen Sunaina and him. As he searched for an answer in his mind, the answer emerged from somewhere else.The little baby in his arms, tapped his nose pulling him out from his thoughts. He looked into her beautiful eyes and smiled. "A father, " he said as he tickled the little one's toes to make her laugh, "is made from the heart! ""That's it! " remarked the wise king. "I have found the answer to your question, " he said turning to the old man. "Fatherhood is born not from the seed, but from the heart! " said Janak. "This baby has won my heart. I take her to be my daughter with all my heart. And that is what matters, " the King added looking up at the heavens in gratitude."From this day on, the child will be known as Janaki, the daughter of Janak" the wise King said, looking down at the infant gurgling in his arms. The people of Videha cheered. They were happy that their King had been blessed with a beautiful daughter. The world knows that little girl as Sita. 'Finishing the story, Nani turned to Kavita and gave her a hug. 'So, Sita was not born from her mother's tummy? ' Kavita asked wide-eyed. 'No! ' replied Nani. 'She came from a furrow on the ground. In fact the name Sita itself means furrow! ' Kavita knew that the Ramayana was the most enduring epic story of India. That Sita from the epic should be like her, made Kavita smile. Something inside her felt better again.'Ladoos? ' Nani offered Kavita once more. This time, Kavita couldn't refuse and helped herself to her favourite sweets. 'Nani, I've got to go! ' she said after eating a plateful of ladoos. 'Where are you going? ' Nani asked. 'To meet Riya! ' replied Kavita. 'I have to tell Riya and all my friends the story of Sita, ' she said, getting up to leave. 'Sita, the child from the furrow! ' Kavita added looking back at Nani with a confident smile.Sita, the heroine of the Ramayana, the great Indian epic, was found in a furrow by her father, King Janak. The name Sita, is derived from the Sanskrit word seeta which means furrow. Sita is known by many other names. Popular among them is Janaki, the daughter of Janak and Vaidehi, the princess of Videha. Loved by the people of Mithila, the capital of the kingdom, Sita is also known as Mythili. Born from the earth, she is known also as Bhumija. The tale of Sita from the Ramayana, has endured through the ages. Through classical music, folk songs and dance, Sita continues to live on in Indian culture and remains one of the most popular characters of Indian mythology. Sita, is one amongst the dozens of characters from Indian mythology, who is adopted.