One fine ordinary day, Cow was taking a stroll in the park.Today there was no crime to fight; all the bad men were locked up.And there were no lives to save; the life guard was on duty at the beach, ,and the neighbourhood watch was on patrol in the streets.But, Cow could hear a call for help! Who could it be?It was a young boy. He was being bullied by some older kids. The children were being very mean to him.Quick as a flash, Supercow was there!The biggest bully was so surprised, he lost his balance, and fell on his bottom.Supercow hung the big bully by his shirt collar to a tree, to give him a time out, asking him to think about what he had done wrong. After a short time, the big bully realised his mistakes, and he said “Sorry” .All the kids now realised how wrong they had been. They felt very ashamed of what they had done.Seeing him so upset, one girl went to comfort the little boy being bullied, and gave him a big cuddle.The big bully realised how wrong he had been, and promised to never be mean to anyone ever again; Supercow let the big bully down.Seeing all his work was done, Supercow flew away to save another day.And Cow went back to what was just, ORDINARY an day.Bullying Guidance for Kids Bullying happens when someone hurts someone else on purpose. Bullying can affect anyone, anytime or place. ALL bullying is wrong! ! Other People's Feelings It's not nice to make other people feel bad, just the same way we don't want someone to make us feel bad. DO: Play nicely, treat others nicely, share, compliment, make others happy. DON'T: Hurt other kids, call names, whisper, tease, hit/kick/pinch, hurt others feelings, or ignore others by not asking them to join in activities. We're all the Same, in that, We're all Different! NO BETTER, NO WORSE! Just DIFFERENT. Just because someone is different doesn't mean that they are better or worse than the rest of us – it's differences that make us more interesting! We all have special talents, all of us, and no one should be picked on because they seem different or not as good at something, or because they have special needs. And, remember also, we're all the same in that no one wants to be hurt, no one wants to feel bad, left out, or picked on. Support Your Friends If a child in your school is being bullied, tell someone, a friend, parent, or teacher. And be nice to them, make sure you and your friends support them and they feel welcome. Don't support a bully or anyone who hurts others, make it clear to them it's NOT okay. Set an example, don't hurt others, be kind to others. Being Bullied Bullies are looking for your response; whenever you can, ignore the bully: – walk away, don't say anything, don't let them get to you. Find other friends: Remember, you're perfect the way you are, and there are always plenty of good people that will accept and love you, just as you are. Tell a friend, teacher, or parent straight away, don't be afraid, because bullying is wrong, no matter what, and must be stopped. Being a Bully Sometimes we feel hurt by others, or we may feel not as good as someone else, and this makes us want to hurt someone else to make us feel better. This is the worst thing that we can do to ourselves and for those around us. Making others feel bad is not a way to make ourselves look better or feel better. Hurting someone because we are being hurt is equally wrong, if we're being hurt by someone we Finding a friend and someone to support us the way we are is the best way to feel better about ourselves, and the best way to find a friend is to be a friend! need to tell someone about it.Free Kids Books Advice on Bullying DON'T BE A BULLY Kids that bully hurt other kids on purpose. Bullying is very bad. Bullying can hurt people with: ✗ Words, teasing, calling them names, saying unkind things about them; ✗ Or by actions, hitting, pushing, kicking, pinching, throwing objects; ✗ Or by ignoring them and leaving them out of activities. ✗ BULLYING Dos and Don'ts Do be nice Don't hurt What Cool Kids Do ●Cool Kids are nice to others by caring, sharing, helping, and putting others first; ●Cool kids support all types of kids no matter what their ●Cool kids think about other ●Cool kids support kids who differences or abilities; people's feelings; are being bullied. What Cool Kids Don't ●Cool Kids don't bully! ●Cool Kids don't hurt other kids on purpose; others; ●Cool Kids don't judge ●Cool kids don't let others ●Cool kids aren't mean to bully or be bullied; others. Make the bullying pledge: “I promise never to bully or be with someone who bullies others. If I see someone being bullied, I will help them by telling an adult. I promise never to hit, push, or say unkind words to hurt someone on purpose.” ________________________________________________ Name Date SignedBullying Guidance for Parents Bullying is best defined as discrimination by a stronger entity against a weaker entity. Although usually involving children, bullying has no limits of age, creed, or race, and can affect anyone. Recognition Generally, a child will not not tell anyone they are being bullied, often until it is too late, especially not an adult, unless there has been a prior relationship of trust built up. Some incidents of bullying in teenage years have resulted in death and suicide, and yet the child was still too afraid to speak out. Many teenagers and middle-graders will have mood swings, but it is really important as a parent, caregiver or concerned adult friend, that you monitor any out of character mood changes, or behavior changes and speak to the child concerned as soon as possible. Being available, being observant, and being a friend, can be your biggest methods of support for a child in difficulty. Confidence A confident child will shrug off or counteract bullying, and the bully will usually loose interest soon enough. It's no fun bullying someone that doesn't bite. Ensuring a child is sure of themselves, secure in their own self image, accepting of their abilities and disabilities, will mean they are less likely to be a victim of bullying, or if they are, they have the ability to deflect the attack and turn the situation to their advantage. Support If a child comes to you for support, it is vital that the situation is handled correctly. Incorrect handling can result in more subtle and more vicious bullying, which could be much more emotionally damaging than straight physical attacks. If it is the first time you have dealt with the issues seek advice and research the subject carefully. Both generically and personally, don't jump in feet first, especially if you are emotionally involved. Time taken to search a solution usually will result in a better solution for all. Prevention Start early by instilling confidence and trust with your child. Ensure they have a high self worth, and a high level of trust in you to share problems without fear of repercussions. This is harder than it sounds, but much easier than it is for a child to put up with bullying silently. If you start early and keep practicing, it will have rewards. Links to Bullying Support Sites http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Bullying http://www. bullying. org www. bullying. co. uk http://www. stopbullying. govMORE BOOKS! Other books available by the author: `` Danielle Bruckert is a New Zealander living abroad, who now calls Africa home. Her chosen career is as a professional pilot, she has worked in a variety of aviation capacities from instruction to airline flying, and is the author of several aviation text books. About the Author Danielle started writing children's books as a creative outlet from the stress of her 'day job' and as a break from the sometimes monotonous work required for her professional writing. She began with the Mac and Dipper series, aimed at 5-10 year olds, inspired by two of her own dogs. After having children of her own, she suddenly found she had a muse, an eager resource for test reading, and, by benefit of age, an honest critic. It was fun and rewarding to write creative stories to match her children's learning curve. Because of her passion for children's literature, and the role it plays in literacy standards, all of Danielle's books are available free in ebook versions. This also led Danielle to create the website 'Free Kids Books' to share good quality free children's books with others, contributing to improved literacy standards world wide To contact the author write to danielle@redskyventures. org More books like this one are available at: http://www. freekidsbooks. org