“STOP pulling my hair!” shouts Zoya. “First you stop calling me Fatso!” Armaan yells at his sister. “Children, behave yourselves!” says Ma. “Remember, you are at my clinic. There are patients waiting outside. Both of you are disturbing them!”“But Ma –” “Enough! If I hear another sound from either of you, I will punish you both,” says Ma sternly.1, 2, 3. . . a few seconds pass in silence. But the peace does not last! “This is your fault, Zoya. Why do you have to be so stupid?” “Who are you calling stupid, slowpoke? You can’t even spell stupid.” “Stop calling me names! I’ll tell Ma,” says Armaan, pinching Zoya’s arm.“You are such a tattletale!” says Zoya, shoving her brother. Armaan loses his balance. He topples over backwards and bumps into something hard. CRASH!Oh, no! Zoya and Armaan stare at the pile of bones lying on the ground. “See what a mess you’ve made of Ma’s skeleton model!” says an upset Zoya. “This is all your fault! You are the one who pushed me!” yells Armaan.“We better do something quickly! Otherwise, we’ll both be in trouble,” says Zoya. Armaan nods and picks up a bone. “This one could be the head bone. It has two holes for eyes, one hole for the nose, and teeth below.” “You’re right,” says Zoya. “That’s definitely the head bone. This is like a puzzle. We just need to figure out which bone goes where.”“Where do you think this goes?” asks Zoya, picking up a big cage- like bone. “Um. . . well,” Armaan makes a fist with his hand and raps the middle part of his body, “I think that cage on top must be the chest. And the space below must be for the tummy.” Zoya nods and smiles. The two of them hold the piece together and mount it onto the stand.“Look at this piece. Don’t these bones look like finger-bones?” asks Zoya, wiggling the small bones at Armaan. “I think this is an arm. Can you look for the other one?“How do you know that it isn’t a leg bone?” asks Armaan. “Watch me!” Zoya sits down and places her hand flat on the floor next to her foot.In no time, Armaan finds the other arm bone and two leg bones. “The hands bones are shorter than the foot bones. We must be right!” says Armaan. Zoya stands on her tiptoes to fix the arm bones while Armaan attaches the leg bones to the skeleton model.They hear Ma's voice outside, telling a patient to get rest, and visit again in a week. It sounds like she’s almost done! Only the skull remains to be fixed. Oh, no! They can’t reach. “Quick, Armaan, pull that chair here,” whispers Zoya. She climbs on to the chair and places the skull right at the top of the skeleton. Armaan drags the chair back to its place. Just in time!“We’ve done it!” Zoya hugs Armaan. Ma walks in. “It is nice to see the two of you hugging. I'm done for the day! Let's go get ice-cream,” she says.“By the way, you were both very clever to put the skeleton back together correctly,” says Ma. Zoya and Armaan look at each other in surprise. How did Ma know?15Fun Bone Facts 1. Your hands have the most number of bones in the human body. 2. A newborn baby has around 300 bones. As you grow, you are left with 206 bones. 3. The longest bone in the human body is the thigh bone. 4. The smallest bone is inside your ear. 5. The place where bones meet is called a joint.