FAIRY CIRCLES - a true fairy tale This book belongs t: _________________________________On the South West coast of Africa there is a magical place called Namibia. My family and I are travelling there for our vacation. Namibia is like a land that time has forgotten. The land has been untouched for so long, many people believe it has turned magical. PAGE 1For example, the Welwitschia, is like a living fossil –A plant that may have been alive for over a 1000 years! Yet only has two leaves. . . . . That's kind of magical. PAGE 2Or the wonderful colours of the desert, which change with the changing light of the day. Some of the highest dunes in the world are there. The desert itself is one of the oldest, which is why it is such a deep red in places. PAGE 3There are the Tsaris mountains, that seem to show the many layers of the earth's crust. There is a place where the Swakop River carved spectacular moonscapes in the granite rock around 450 million years ago. PAGE 4And then, there are the FAIRY CIRCLES. They dot the Namib Desert like a spotted handkerchief. PAGE 5Scientists think these circles may be created by termites, . . . or perhaps by fungi. (a fungi is a little bit like a mushroom, or, that is to say a mushroom is a type of fungi) But they don't know for sure. PAGE 6I think they are created by fairies. After all, why else would they be called “Fairy Circles?” PAGE 7Fairy Circles only occur in the Namib Desert, in the west of Namibia, on the edge of the escarpment where the desert's rain fall is highest. Perhaps this is because the fairies choose to only hold their magical fairy conferences in the Namib Desert, since it is such a special magical place. Or perhaps it is because there are lots of big open spaces with very few people, or even animals, in the Namib Desert. PAGE 8Do you think they dance in the day or night? I bet they choose to dance on the plains of the desert in the small hours of the morning. Or perhaps they dance during the day time when no one is looking. Wherever and whenever they dance, they leave the perfectly formed fairy circles. Where nothing grows inside, only around the edge. PAGE 9Fairy Circles come in lots of different sizes. Most are a few metres wide. Some are very big, big enough to hold a small herd of goats or calves; Others are very small, so small you can hardly see them. Fairy Circles may be less than 1 metre, up to as big as 30 metres wide! PAGE 10Perhaps the big ones are made by big fairies, and the small ones are made by small fairies. Perhaps the big giant ones, like this one, are made by a Giant Queen Mother fairy, who is the biggest fairy of them all. Perhaps she has many minion fairies with her to help with the dances. PAGE 11The first ever symposium about Fairy Circles was held in 2015. (A symposium is a big meeting where lots of experts get together). They held it in the Namib Desert – of course! I bet they had lots of fun and learnt a lot. …. But. . . . they all agreed, they are still not sure what causes Fairy Circles. PAGE 12When we get to see the Namib Desert, I want to ask Mum and Dad if I can get up really early; To see if I can catch a glimpse of the fairies dancing. PAGE 13What do you think causes Fairy Circles? I still think it is fairies, and I really hope I will see some, so then I can tell you for sure. PAGE 14With or without the fairies help, if we all do our part to help look after the environment, the fairy circles will be around for a long time, for all of us to enjoy! PAGE 15If you liked this book, please leave a review here: THE END Many more books like this are available here: http://www. freekidsbooks. org Support NaDEET here: http://www. nadeet. org/ More about fairy circles here: http://www. fairycircles. com/ Acknowledgements Thanks to all those who have made their photos available in Creative Commons. Thanks to NaDEET for their partnership on this project. Thanks to friends and family for all the assistance with early drafts and especially those who helped with editing advice. Thanks to Vicky and Nils Creative Commons contributors: Thorsten Becker, Feenkreise, Hans Stieglitz. Editing Contributions: Brenda Whittaker, Anita Redding, Kanika G. Thanks to The Namibian, for a quote from their article on Fairy Circles http://www. namibian. com. na/index. php? id=134604&page=archive-read Danielle BruckertFUN FACTS Fairy Circles Fairy Circles are mysterious in nature and appearance. No one knows what causes Fairy Circles, although there has been a lot of research completed on the topic by scientists. The most common theories are: ●sand termites; ●algae or fungi beneath the surface; ●residual plant toxins (residual poisons remaining after the death of certain plants); ●competing vegetation ecosystems; ●fairies (or perhaps dragons, or gods, but mostly fairies;-). Fairy Circles occur only in the Namib Desert. They are mainly found on the eastern border where the rain fall is highest. Fairy Circles range from around 1 metre up to 30 metres. Really big Fairy Circles are sometimes used by local tribes as a kraal for livestock. Albi Bruckner, NamibRand founder, comments“I'm glad they didn't fnd the cause, as it makes such a great story.” “It is great that there is something out there that can't be explained by scientists. We need mysteries in life and be able to marvel and revere Nature in wonder and awe!” adds Nils, the organiser of the 2015 symposium. We agree! There are not many magical things left in this world, this is one of them, it deserves a story.Namibia Namibia lies on Africa's West Coast. It is bordered on the East by the Kalahari Desert, and in the West by the Namib Desert and the Atlantic Coastline. The only permanent rivers in the country form the Northern and Southern borders. Its neighbouring countries are Angola, Botswana, and South Africa. The tip of the Caprivi Strip extends towards Victoria falls, where four countries, Botswana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and Namibia meet. Namibia is one of the least populated countries in the world. At the time of writing it is second only to Mongolia. There are approximately 2. 2 million people in 825, 000 square km. The offcial language is English, but there are twelve different languages spoken in Namibia, including nine tribal languages. The Damara and Nama languages utilise 'clicks' similar to that of the Kalahari bushmen. There are many amazing natural wonders within the country: - The Fish River Canyon is the largest canyon in Africa, and takes fve days to walk through. - The Ovahimba tribe in the North, despite being one of the wealthiest tribes in the country, still live the same way they have for hundreds of years. - The Welwitschia plant is called a 'living fossil', as some plants have been alive for over 1000 years. - The Skeleton Coast is famous for its large number of ship wrecks, victims of the coastal fog and unforgiving waters of the Atlantic Ocean. - The quaint and picturesque coastal town of Swakopmund provides details of Namibia's German colonial heritage, and lots of fun for tourists.The Namib Desert The Namib Desert is where Namibia derives its name from. It stretches the length of Namibia's West coast, and includes the infamous stretch of coastline known as the Skeleton Coast. It spreads inland from the coast up to the sharp rise of the escarpment, with the Tsaris and Naukluft mountains prominent border features. The Namib is one of the most diverse deserts in the world, and may be one of the oldest. It has one of the largest number of endemic species of any desert in the world. With the annual rainfall between 2mm and 200mm, depending on the area, it is Southern Africa's only true desert. An increase in eco-tourism has seen many livestock farms in the Namib converted into wildlife sanctuaries, allowing the endemic species to thrive. Animals found in the Namib include the majestic oryx (or gamsbok), Namibia's national animal, large numbers of fur seal, the endangered desert rhino and desert elephant, and many more. The Namib hosts some of the highest permanent dunes in the world. Dune 7 is approximately 1250ft high. The stunning Sossusvlei Valley provides opportunity to climb some of these dunes, with Big Daddy being the most popular for ascent, and a very close second in height to Dune 7 at approximately 1150ft. .QUESTIONS What causes Fairy Circles? A. fungi B. termites C. fairies D. no one really knows Where do they occur? A. Namib Desert, B. Sahara Desert, C. Kalahari Desert D. on my dessert; Where is Namibia? A. Africa, B. Asia, C. America, D. Atlantis What is a Welwitschia? A. plant, B. animal, C. fossil, D. insurance ACTIVITIES Here are some ideas for a project about Namibia: 1. Research one of the topics in this book and create a story board or article with pictures and information about what you have found. 2. Draw a painting of one of the plants or areas in this book. 3. Apply to join one of the young researcher's camps in the Namib Desert. When travelling to Namibia: 4. Create a travel journal when you are visiting the Namib Desert, including pictures and interesting information about where you have been. 5. Collect some samples of rock, sand, plants, feathers, and other items that can be found in the desert (ensure not to disturb the natural habitat).Adopt a Fairy Circle of Your Own! Help the Namib Rand Conservation Foundation, and fairy circles everywhere! If you love the concept of fairy circles, for a very modest sum of ZAR1000 you can adopt your very own Fairy Circle, to help protect the desert and the fairy circles for future generations to come. The NamibRand Conservation Foundation (NRCF) is a not-for-profit organisation. It seeks to promote and assist in any way with environmental conservation, education and research undertaken on the NamibRand Nature Reserve and the south- western Namib region. The NamibRand Nature Reserve is where NaDEET lives.About this Project All proceeds from sale of the book will go directly to NaDEET for the beneft of nature conservation and desert research and education in Namibia. This book is available for free for distribution, attribution must be provided to http://www. freekidsbooks. org and http://www. nadeet. org/ . Any proceeds from this book must be donated to NaDEET. No derivatives. About NaDEET The Namib Desert Environmental Education Trust (NaDEET) is a non-proft, Namibian trust established in 2003. The NaDEET Centre is located 100 km south of Sesriem/Sossusvlei on the NamibRand Nature Reserve, and the head offce is located in the coastal city of Swakopmund. NaDEET believes environmental education must not only increase awareness and knowledge but also eco-friendly attitudes and skills in Namibia's youth and educators to promote participation. To contact NaDEET write to admin@nadeet. org More information about NaDEET is available at: http://www. nadeet. org/ About the Author Danielle Bruckert Danielle's heart was captured by Namibia when she frst arrived there. People always ask her how she could leave NZ (a country some call God Zone), hopefully this book will help explain. She spent many years fying over the beautiful Namib Desert, as a charter pilot, and when asked about the strange dotted landscape she loved explaining to passengers “Why else would they have such a name, they're made by fairies, of course,” With a passion for children's books, and a desire to promote literacy, Danielle created the website 'Free Kids Books' to share free children's books and literacy material, where many of her own books can be found. To contact the author write to danielle@redskyventures. org Or use the contact form at http://www. freekidsbooks. orgFairy Circles -truly a fairy tale On a visit to the Namib Desert, the mysterious phenomenon of Fairy Circles is discovered. Are they really caused by fairies? A fun look at fairy circles and the Namib Desert with a creative mix of fact and imagination. MORE BOOKS! Other books available from the author: