GECKO on the WALL Contacts Red Sky Ventures at: redskyventures@gmail. com To purchase a hard copy, or to find more books like this one visit: http://www. freekidsbooks. org More books from the author are available at http://www. redskyventures. org Or check out: http://stores. lulu. com/aviationbooksandresources http://stores. lulu. com/macanddipperGECKO on the WALL For Zehnya age 2.There's a gecko on my wall, I don't mind him there at all; Lying quietly watching me, he is quite good company.There's a gecko on the rock, she seems to be wearing a frock; And I think she is asking me, if I want to come to tea.There's a gecko in the pool, he really does look cool; Sipping a long cool lemonade, wearing sunglasses in the shade.There's a gecko on the roof, he is acting quite aloof; Whispering calmly to me: “ I simply must get down, since I have to go to town, I need to be there by three. ”Of all the geckos that I see: The gecko on a rock in a frock; The gecko looking cool in the pool; The gecko who's aloof on the roof;I like best of all, the gecko on my wall, lying quietly, watching me.THE ENDGECKO on the WALL This story is entirely fictional, real people, animals, or geckos, any resemblance to (especially the ones in this picture) is purely coincidental.About the Author Danielle Bruckert Danielle is a New Zealander living abroad, who now calls Africa home. Her chosen career is as a professional pilot, she has worked in a variety of aviation capacities from instruction to airline flying, and is the author of several aviation text books. Danielle started writing children's books as a creative outlet from the stress of her 'day job' and as a break from the sometimes monotonous work required for her professional writing. She began with the Mac and Dipper series, aimed at 5-10 year olds, inspired by two of her own dogs. After having a child of her own, she suddenly found she had a muse, an eager resource for test reading, and, by benefit of her age, an honest critic all in one. It was fun and rewarding to write creative stories which matched her daughters learning curve. A series of 'junior' books aimed at young children and children learning to read followed. Encouraged by friends and family, and already familiar with the self-publishing route through her non-fiction books, Danielle began publishing the books online so that others could enjoy them too. Because of her passion for children's literature and the role it plays in improved literacy standards, all of Danielle's own books are available for free download and may be used free of charge for non-commercial purposes.MORE BOOKS! Other books available by the author:GECKO on the WALL To contact the author write to kids@gonumbers. com Or Contact Red Sky Ventures at redskyventures@gmail. com To purchase a hard copy, or to find more books like this one visit: http://www. freekidsbooks. org More books from the author are available at http://www. redskyventures. org Or check out: http://stores. lulu. com/aviationbooksandresources http://stores. lulu. com/macanddipper