This book is all about seals.The scientific name for a seal is a PINNIPED. Seals are a widespreadand diversegroupof fin- footed,semiaquatic,marine mammals. Seals belong to the orderCarnivora. Theirclosest living relatives arebears, otters, weasels,and raccoons.There are three types of seal families: ●Odobenidae:whose only living (extant) member is thewalrus;●Otariidae:the eared seals( sea lionsand fur seals); and● Phocidae: the earless, or true seals.The smallest seal is the Baikal seal at around 1 metre (3ft 3in) long and 45 kilograms (100lbs). The biggest is the southern elephant seal, at over 5 m (16ft) and 3 ton (6, 600lb), making it also the largest carnivoran.Seals spend most of their lives in the water, but come ashore to mate, give birth, or escape from predators, like sharks and killer whales.Seals have streamlined bodies and four limbs in the form of flippers, that act as paddles in the water. They are not as fast in the water as dolphins, but much more flexible and agile.Fur seals and sea lions use their front limbs primarily to propel themselves through the water. Earless seals and walruses use their hind limbs to move through water.Fur seals, sea lions, and walruses have hind limbs that can be pulled under the body and used as legs on land. Travel for earless or true seals is more cumbersome on land, as they waddle along on their sea adapted flippers.Sea lions and fur seals (otariids) have visible external ears, while earless or true seals (phocids) and walruses lack these.Seals have well-developed senses—their eyesight and hearing are adapted for both air and water, and they have an advanced tactile system in their vibrissae (whiskers).Some types of seal are well adapted for diving to great depths, they have a layer of fat (blubber) under the skin to keep them warm. All species, except walruses, are covered in fur.Although seal species can be found all around the world, most prefer colder waters, in the higher latitudes or polar currents .Seals feed largely on fish and other small marine animals. A few, like the leopard seal, feed on larger animals such as penguins and other seals. Walruses are specialized for feeding on bottom-dwelling sea life.Seal pups are typically born in the spring and summer months, females bear almost all the responsibility for raising them. Mothers of some species stay on land, fasting, so as to nurse their young for short periods, while others take foraging trips to sea between nursing bouts. Walruses are known to nurse their young while at sea.Seals produce a number of sounds or vocalizations, like the loud barks of California sea lions, the gong-like calls of walruses, and the beautiful and complex songs of Weddell seals.The meat, blubber and fur coats of seals have traditionally been used by indigenous peoples of the Arctic. Seals are now protected from hunting by international law. Besides hunting, seals also face threats from accidental trapping, marine pollution, and conflicts with local people.The Japanese sea lion and the Caribbean monk seal have become extinct in the past century, while the Mediterranean monk seal and Hawaiian monk seal are ranked 'Critically Endangered' by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.Seals have been endeared in various cultures worldwide. They are commonly kept in captivity and are may be trained to perform tricks and tasks.We hope you enjoyed all the seals! zSeal Classifications (Wikipedia)