2One day, an ant went looking for food. She found a sprouted green mung bean in the kitchen.4The ant tried to pick up the green mung bean. It was very heavy. The ant then started to pull it to take it home. Her home was far away.6On her way home, someone had left a tap open. Water was flowing from it. The tiny ant thought it was a river! Somehow, she crossed it. Her home was very far away.8Then the ant saw a bucket. She held on to the green mung bean and tried to climb it. She tried hard but she kept slipping down.10Soon another ant came up to her. They talked to each other. Now, they both went around the bucket while pulling the green mung bean.12Further ahead, a woman was cleaning her house. Swoof! The ant fell to one side and the green mung bean fell on the other. The ant ran to get her green mung bean. Her home was still very far away.14Next, the ant came close to a sleeping dog. The dog sneezed loudly! The green mung bean rolled off near the dog’s mouth.16The ant carefully went near the dog. The dog opened one eye and looked at the ant. The ant took the green mung bean and began walking. Her home was very far away.18Close by, a chick was pecking on some grains. It saw the green mung bean and tried to peck on it. Ah, now my green mung bean is gone, thought the ant sadly. Just then, the chick’s mother called out from under the papaya tree. Cluck! Cluck! Cluck!20The chick left the green mung bean behind, and ran towards its mother. Once again, the ant picked up the green mung bean and started walking home. Her home was still. . . Oh, it was right in front of her now!Do you know your beans? The ant in this book found a green mung bean with a sprout. Sprouted beans are very good for our health. We can make sprouts with pulses like rajma, chickpea, black gram and horse gram. Bean Games Get to know the different kinds of pulses by playing this game with your friends. Ask an adult to give you different kinds of pulses from your kitchen, like chickpea, rajma, toor dal, soy bean, mung bean and peas and learn their names. Put them all in one bowl. Blind-fold one person. She has to feel the pulses and guess the name. See how many she gets right. Another way to play this game is to make all the players close their eyes. Then, everyone tries to separate the different kinds of pulses into different groups.