Prem studied in class two. He went to the municipal school near his house. His teacher was always bubbling with new ideas.One day, she asked the children to find and fill an empty matchbox. “Fill the matchbox with as many different things as you can, over one week. The one who packs in the most number of different things will get a prize next week.”Prem liked the idea. At home, Prem tried to put his eraser and pencil sharpener in the matchbox. He managed to fit in only one. They were too big. This made him think. What are the things I can put in?While he was doing his homework, the lead from Prem's pencil broke and fell off. He put the piece in his matchbox. After sharpening his pencil, he put a small wood shaving in his matchbox. Prem started looking carefully for tiny things.He could smell the poha his mother was cooking. In the kitchen, he found a small mustard seed, a cumin seed, and a seed of a red chilli. He put them in along with a grain each of sugar, rice and wheat. He added grains of maize, millet, green gram and other pulses.The next day, he put in a small rubber band, a piece of wool, one strand of hair, and a piece of thread. Prem now kept looked for tiny, teeny-weeny things. The next day, he added a rose thorn, a sunflower petal, a small twig, a tea leaf, a tamarind leaf and a small stone.There was still some space in the matchbox. So Prem put in a small piece of paper, a pin, a needle, a bead, a nail and a small button. The matchbox was still not full. On the last day of the week, Prem put in a lemon seed, an orange seed, and a pumpkin seed. Now the matchbox was packed. It couldn’t hold any more.At school, each child counted the number of things stuffed in his or her matchbox. Some children had collected fifty things. One child had managed to stuff over a hundred things.When it was Prem’s turn, he shook his matchbox in the air. There was not a sound because it was stuffed fully! When Prem emptied his matchbox, everyone was surprised.He had stuffed over a hundred-and-fifty little things in his matchbox! No one had come even close to him. So Prem won a new box of crayons!