Look, it snowed last night! As the sun rises, seven sisters wake up in their house."Come, let’s play,” Parvati says. “Are we going to slide down the slope?” Chiya asks. “YES!” yells Resam.Parvati is first. She sits on her snowboard. “Ready. . . one, two, three, GO!” Parvati pushes with her hands. She slides smoothly down the slope. “Wheeee!” she shouts, giggling.Resam and Chiya are next. Chiya looks nervous. “Come with me,” says Resam. They hold hands and walk downhill. They count their steps. Their shoes leave prints in the snow.Uttara is fourth. She looks down at her sisters. She is not afraid! She crawls carefully down the slope on her hands and knees. “Very good,” says Parvati. "Some day, you'll climb high mountains, Uttara! "Purva is fifth. She tumbles and rolls like a snowball, all the way down the slope. It is a funny sight and the girls laugh.Varsha is sixth. She lies on her stomach and slowly slides down the slope.Suddenly, the sky grows dark and it turns windy. There’s a storm coming! “Girls, come back inside!” Mama shouts.Uttara is scared. She tries to crawl up the slope but keeps sliding back down. "I want to go to Mama, " she cries.Purva runs uphill. Her feet sink in. She can’t climb higher. She is stuck!Resam and Chiya try to climb up as well. But they both come sliding down. Oh no! What will they do now?Nritya is at the top of the slope. She is the eldest. "Wait! " she yells. She runs into her house and brings back a long rope. She ties one end to a tree. She throws the other end to her sisters.“Uttara,” she shouts, “Don’t be scared. Hold on tight to the rope! I will pull you up.” Uttara grips the rope tightly. Nriyta pulls her to the top.“Phew,” says Parvati, “We made it!” The seven sisters run into their house just as it starts to snow again. Mama pours them all hot tea from a kettle. What an adventure they’ve had today!16Why Do We Slip? The seven sisters in the story slid down and climbed up a slope. They walked, they slid, they crawled, and they rolled. There is something between your body and the ground that gives you the ability to walk. This is called friction. Without friction, you would not be able to stand for long or even walk. When there is very less friction between our body and the ground, we slip and slide.Did you know that words such as grip, slip and slide are related to friction? Match these words to what the girls are doing in the picture. Grip Slip Slide