Fati was a little girl who ran like the wind, who loved to laugh and who always tried hard to do as she was told.Today was Sports Day at school. Fati played football and ran in three races.After school, she walked home with her good friend Hawa. Hawa said, “Fati, you are a fast runner!”Fati arrived home and found her mother in the kitchen. She said, “Mother, good evening.” Fati’s mother replied, “Fine evening. How are you?”Fati said, “We had Sports Day at school, and I ran very fast. I am hot, tired and very hungry.”Mother laughed and said, “My dear little Fati, you were born with fast legs! I will make okro soup and dinner will be ready soon.”Mother put some palm oil in a big cooking pot and placed it on the fire. When the oil was hot, she added onions and garlic and stirred them until they were soft. She then put in pepper, tomatoes, added some water and six pieces of steamed cow meat.Mother said, “Fati, please help me to stir the soup.” Fati said,” Yes, Mother.”Fati stirred the soup once. She said, “This soup smells delicious.”Fati stirred the soup twice. She said, “This soup smells very delicious.”Fati stirred the soup three times. She said, “This soup smells very, very delicious.”Then, Fati looked at her mother. Mother was not looking her way. She was cutting green leaves for the soup.Fati took one piece of meat from the pot and ate it. Fati said, “Mmm. . .”Again, Fati looked at her mother. Her mother was not looking her way. She was cutting garden eggs for the soup.Fati quickly took a second piece of meat from the pot and ate it. Fati said, “Mmm. . . Mmm. . .”Once more, Fati looked at her mother. Her mother was not looking her way. She was cutting okro for the soup.Fati very quickly took a third piece of meat from the pot and ate that too! Fati said, “Mmm. . . Mmm. . . Mmm. . .”Soon, Mother came to the fire with the green leaves, garden eggs and okro. Fati was still holding the big wooden spoon.Mother smiled and said, “Thank you for helping to stir the soup Fati.” Fati did not know what to say.Mother put the green leaves, garden eggs and okro in the soup and took the spoon from Fati. She started to stir the soup.Mother looked into the pot. She could see the soup bubbling on the hot fire. Mother looked for the six pieces of meat in the pot. “One. . . two. . . three. . . ,” said Mother. Mother saw three pieces of meat and no more. Mother said nothing. Fati said nothing.When Mother served the soup, Fati did not get any meat. Fati said, “Mother, I am sorry. I will not do that again.” And she never did. And that was the end of that.