Sitara has a hobby. Playing, helping her parents, dreaming of flying cows or upside-down owls, she always sucks her thumb.One hot summer day, she is reading her favourite book about a child who set up home in an ice bucket. Usually, when Sitara wants to know the meaning of a big word in a story, she asks her father.But today Papa asks her, “What is the meaning of adventure?” “Doing something exciting,” says Sitara. “What is the meaning of magnificent?” asks Papa. “Very beautiful,” says Sitara. “What is the meaning of monument?” “A grand thing.”“Good,” says Papa. “Now listen to me. We are going on an adventure. Next week, we’ll take a train to see a magnificent monument. The Taj Mahal.” Sitara is so happy she forgets to suck her thumb. She can draw a train but she has never been on one!“But,” says Papa, “children who suck their thumbs are not allowed on trains.” How can that be! Sitara decides to talk to her mother about it.“Ma, we are going to see the Taj Mahal,” she says. “Yes,” says Ma. “Do you know what it is? ’ “Something mag-ni-fi-cient that you go to see in a train,” says Sitara. “Four hundred years ago a king brought together twenty thousand people to make it,” says Ma. “But children who suck their thumbs are not allowed on trains.”Sitara is miserable. Twenty thousand people! Four hundred years! She wants to see the Taj Mahal.Sitara goes to bed and dreams she is all alone. Everyone else has gone on the holiday. But look, what is Chotu doing?Sitara wakes up and shouts, “You fooled me!” She runs to her parents. “Chotu also sucks his thumb,” she yells at them. “How can he go on the train?” “Dinner is ready,” says Ma.Papa says, “You will be grown up soon, Sitara.” Ma says, “Grown-ups need both their hands.” Sitara asks, “What do grown-ups need both their hands for?”“You need both your hands to tie your shoelaces with,” says Ma. “You need both your hands to shell peas with or peel potatoes,” says Papa.“I am grown up! I can do those things,” says Sitara. “Then show us you are grown up,” says Papa. Ma says, “Please take your thumb out of your mouth, Sitara.”Papa says, “You need both your hands to…” “I know,” says Sitara. “I need both my hands to bat. I need both my hands to plait Ma’s hair. I need both my hands to hold a skipping rope.”“I need both my hands to make a string butterfly. I need both my hands to pretend I am an aeroplane. I need both my hands to stand on my head. I also need both my hands to. . .”16