Fati was a little girl who ran like the wind, who loved to laugh, and who always tried hard to do as she was told.One day, Fati went on a bicycle with her father to the farm to pull some weeds.Soon, Fati was tired. Fati said, “Father, I am hot and tired. May I sit under the mango tree? Father said, “Yes Fati, you may sit there. But, please, do not climb any trees today.”Fati sat under the mango tree. Fati looked up. She saw one. . . two. . . three ripe mangoes!Fati looked over at her father. He was busy and not looking her way. Quietly, Fati started to climb the mango tree. Fati thought, “I will sit on the nice, big branch. It is a good place to rest and to eat plenty of ripe mangoes.” So she sat and ate.After she ate the mangoes, Fati climbed down. . . Only to see another tree. And this tree had something brown dripping down its bark.It was honey! Fati lo-o-o- ved honey. But she did not love bees. Fati looked up and saw one little bee. Fati thought, “There is only one little bee. He will not hurt me if I climb the tree and look for honey.”Fati looked at her father. He was not looking her way. So Fati climbed up to the top of the tree and took the honey from a deep hole.Fati thought, “I will sit on this nice, big branch. It is a good place to rest and to eat plenty of sweet honey.” So she sat and ate.After she ate the honey, Fati Climbed down the tree. Then she saw the bees. So many of them! BZZZ! BZZZ! BZZZ! She ran away from the bees.Fati ran to her father. Fati was huffing and Fati was puffing. Father said, ” Fati, where have you been?” Fati did not want to say where she had been.So, she said, “ Look, Father, I have a mango. Would you like to eat it?” Father said, “No, thank you, Fati. We must go home now. It's about to rain.”On the way home, Fati sat behind her father on the bicycle. It started to rain.Father went too fast on the bicycle. The bicycle went off the path. CRASH! !The bicycle fell on Fati’s leg.At home, mother and grandmother asked about the day at the farm. "Fati climbed a tree" said father. "Father went too fast on the bicycle and it fell on my leg" said Fati."Oh poor, poor Fati" said mother. "Poor, poor Fati, " said grandmother. We must take care of your leg. " And they did. And that was the end of that.