“Tejas! Look at what I have made!” Mirium tells her brother. “Oho, what is this?” asks Tejas. “The tiger does not live in the snow! How silly!” “Grrrrr, grrrr, grrrr, it does!” says Mirium. “There is a tiger in Russia that lives and hunts in the snow.” “Is that so?” says Tejas. “Let’s check it out. Pass me my magic glasses, Mirium!”“Ooh, you’re right, Mirium,” he said. “I can see the tiger! It is furrier. Maybe because it is so cold there.” “The Siberian tiger is different from the Bengal tiger you find in India, though they look similar,” says Mirium. “It only lives in one part of the world. Just like we love our own home, each animal also loves its own special home and does not like other places,” says Tejas.“I want to see it! I want to see it!” squeals Mirium. “Wait, wait,” says Tejas, laughing. “This isn’t high enough for you. I have an idea.” Tejas drags a table and Mirum climbs on top of it. “From here we can see many more animals living in their homes around the planet,” says Tejas. “Durgesh! Mahima! Come join us!” yells Mirium, calling out to her friends who are passing by.“Ooh, what is that? It looks like a sword in the water,” says Durgesh, clambering on top of a bucket. “That,” says Mirium, “is the unicorn of the sea. It only lives in the waters in the northernmost part of our earth, the Arctic. It is cold and dark but home for the narwhals.” “How do you know so much, hmm?” asks Tejas, smiling. Mirium shrugs and says, “Books.”“Oh! Oh!” Mahima jumps up and says, “I read this story about an animal called the orangutan. But I don’t know what it looks like.” “The great ape of Indonesia and Malaysia,” says Mirum, swinging her glasses towards the east. “Here you go!” Mahima squeals, “The orangutan is eating a fruit, and has a baby that is just like me!”“Okay, okay, now a quick question,” says Tejas. “Can anyone tell me what this animal is?” Durgesh says, “Zebra!” Mirium says, “A deer!” Mahima says, “A buffalo!”Tejas giggles. “None of those! It is the okapi that lives only in a few forests of Africa.”Durgesh looks up and says, “Can I have another turn?” “Sure!” says Tejas. “What… what is that? It has strange blue feet!” “Let me see,” says Mirium, pulling at the glasses. “Aah yes, that is the blue-footed booby. A fantastic bird that lives in South America and does funny dances.”“It is getting dark now. I am hungry!” says Mirium. “Noooooooo. One more! One more!” everyone says. “Okay, then one last one,” Tejas says. Durgesh says with a grin, “I have an extra special animal in mind. So, two more.” Tejas says, “Look at this. This is the kiwi bird from New Zealand in the southern hemisphere. They are the only birds to have nose-holes, just like ours, at the end of their very long beaks. They dig and use their noses to find insects and fruit to eat.”“Thank you!” says Durgesh. “Also, my mother told me this story once. I think it was about a. . a… loris.” “Aah, yes, the Sri Lankan loris. It has beautiful silver hair on its tummy and eyes in the front, just like us,” says Mirium. “But we cannot see it now. It is active in the night.” “But we can always come back tomorrow!” says Mahima. “Okay!” Tejas claps his hands. “Time for us and the animals to go home.” “Do you think all the animals are going home too?” “Yes, Mirium. Each one to its own special home in a unique part of our world.”The seven animals you have met live in different parts of the world. Here’s a map that shows you where they live. You may not have magic glasses like Tejas, but you can still see the animals here. Map not to scaleNarwhal: These sea animals live in icy Arctic waters. Found in Canada, Greenland, Norway and Russia. Kiwi: These birds live in a range of habitats from woodlands to scrubland, sand dunes and mangroves. Found in New Zealand. Sri Lankan loris: Also called the red slender loris, this shy creature lives in trees in wet, tropical areas. Found in Sri Lanka. Siberian tiger: This big cat lives in mixed forest, which are often very cold. Found in Russia and China.Okapi: This creature likes dense forests. Found in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Orangutan: These primates spend their whole lives atop rainforest trees. Found in Malaysia and Indonesia. Blue-footed booby: Most of these birds live on the Galapagos Islands. Also found in California and Peru.