Anu is glued to the screen. She’s watching India play Australia. “Outside edge… caught it… OUT!” declares the commentator.“Yay! We won!” Anu does a victory dance. “YAY!”“Ma, I want to play cricket,” announces Anu. She loves cricket. She is a big fan of the Indian women’s cricket team captain, Mithali Raj. The doorbell rings. Papa is home. “Will you teach me how to play cricket?” Anu asks Papa.Next evening, Papa brings home a large parcel. It contains a bat, gloves, and guards for the thighs, arms, and abdomen.Anu’s friends from school come over. Mridula and Shanta have partial vision, just like Anu. Amita cannot see at all. Rumi’s vision is better than all of theirs.At the field, Papa fixes wickets at both ends of the pitch. These wickets are made of hollow metal so that the players can hear the ball hitting the wicket. TWAAANG! Papa shakes the fibre plastic ball. JHAL JHAL JHAL. Inside the ball are bearings that rattle. “Anu, this sound will tell you how close the ball is,” says Papa. He hands the ball to Shanta and asks her to shout ‘READY? ’ before bowling underarm. “When Anu says, ‘YES’, you shout ‘PLAY’ and release the ball at the same time.”Anu takes position. “READY?” “YES!” “PLAY!”JHAL JHAL JHAL. The ball bounces on the pitch four times. Oh no! Anu misses it. Shanta bowls again. And TWHAAAACK! The ball flies to the corner of the field. FOUR RUNS!The girls practise every day. Two months go by. At school, the sports teacher announces that Anu and her friends will play an inter-school cricket match. The girls are excited.“Tails!” Anu’s team wins the toss and they choose to field. Anu bowls the first over. “READY?” she shouts. “YES!” Anu takes a deep breath, runs and shouts, “PLAY!”JHAL JHAL JHAL. The ball bounces on the pitch with a crackle and Sohini, who is batting, hits it hard. THWACK! It flies across the boundary and the umpire declares a six. The crowd cheers. Anu is charged up. She knows she has to get this wicket. THWACK! The ball shoots upwards and. . . Mridula catches it.A new player, Paula, takes position at the crease. Anu runs and releases the ball. TWANG TWANG. “Another wicket down!” announces the umpire. Two wickets down. The audience cheers, hat-trick, hat-trick! Can Anu do it?This time, batswoman Zoya takes position. Anu’s heart is beating fast and she tries to ignore the butterflies in her stomach. She bowls. Zoya misses the ball but she has stepped out of the crease to take a run. Rumi, who is at the wickets, gets hold of the ball and aims it at the stumps.Stumped! Howzzat! “Hat-trick! Hat-trick! Hat-trick!” roars the crowd.About Blind Cricket Blind Cricket has been adapted for visually-impaired players who can’t see or maybe see just a little. The rules of this game are a little different from the standard rules of cricket. There are 11 players in each team, in which four or more players are totally blind.The biggest difference is the ball. It is filled with ball bearings to provide sound cues. The stumps are made of metal tubes and painted bright orange. Umpires and players use verbal prompts. For example, the bowler always shouts “Play!” while releasing the ball.