Tara and Ravi are going to the market. Amma has given them a list of fruits and vegetables to buy. At the market, Tara spots juicy red tomatoes. "I hope Amma makes tomato chutney today, " she says.Monappa, the vegetable seller, weighs everything. Into the bag goes: - 1 kg fresh red tomatoes - ½ kg onions - ½ kg potatoes - 1 coconut - 6 limes *Half is written as ½. It means one out of two equal parts of something. *A kilogram is written as kg.Tara and Ravi walk home singing: "We want . . . Tomato chutney, tomato chutney. Amma's tasty tomato chutney! "Suddenly Ravi asks Tara, "Is something dripping on your feet too? " Their bag is wet. Oh no! The tomatoes are all squashed at the bottom. Tara whispers to Ravi, "Our tomato chutney looks so horrible. Not at all like Amma's! "The next week, Tara and Ravi are careful. "Heavy vegetables at the bottom; soft and light ones on top, " Ravi keeps repeating. Into the bag goes: - 1 watermelon - ½ kg potatoes - 1 coconut - ½ kg grapes - 6 raw bananas - ½ kg tomatoes, right on top.But at home, they find the grapes have become grape juice under the raw bananas! "Last time we made the tomatoes into chutney. This time we made the grapes into juice. Wonder what we will do next! " Tara says sadly.Next time, Amma's list also has oranges. They are soft and light. So they go on top, next to the tomatoes.Just as Tara and Ravi are walking home singing their chutney song, their friends see them. They are thirsty, so they eat up all the oranges!At home, Amma hugs them when she hears about the missing oranges. She tells them not to feel sad.Next week, Tara and Ravi are clever. They hide the oranges under the lightest thing - a bunch of pudina leaves. Now their thirsty friends will not spot the oranges!That night, Amma makes her tasty tomato chutney and lemon rice. Tara and Ravi gobble up their dinner. And what do they get later? Sweet, juicy oranges, of course!1. If your mother sent you to the shop to buy apples, watermelon and bananas, which fruit would you NEVER put at the bottom?2. Your shopping bag has ½ kg sugar, ½ kg tea, and two packets of biscuits. Which one goes on top?3. Ravi is going to the shop one morning to get half a dozen eggs, ½ kg onions, 1 loaf of bread and ¼ kg potatoes. "Be careful of the eggs! " Amma calls out. Which other items should Ravi NOT pack at the bottom of the bag?